What are we doing? We're just working on
>> I'm just going to listen to you and I'm
just going to go like this and smile. Hi
everyone. I'm sitting here with the
governor. Let's just start over. Hi
everyone. Happy holidays. We hope you
are
Um Nope. Do it again. Number three.
>> [laughter]
>> The Newsoms are having a moment.
Though America's next presidential
election is still more than two years
away, the betting pools show California
Governor Gavin Newsom ahead of the
Democratic pack.
In a political era of big, singular
personalities, Newsom fits the mold.
Good to see you. Telegenic, tactical,
and polarizing, capable of inspiring
both passion and contempt.
>> Gavin Newsom is incompetent.
But there's nothing singular about this
operation. More often than not, his
teammate, Jennifer Siebel Newsom, is in
the room where it happens.
>> How do you guys decide [music] when to
team up? She decides.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm traveling with California's first
couple to see what they make of tech's
turn to the right. I just feel like a
lot of people are losing their way.
>> [music]
>> Taking on the most powerful man in the
world, you've dressed him like Marie
Antoinette, told him to take dementia
meds. You're wincing a little.
>> I know. It's
unbecoming. She washed my mouth out with
soap.
>> [music]
>> And getting a glimpse of home life with
the Newsoms. Are you competitive with
each other? Totally. I beat him in free
throws the other day. Thank you very
much.
I was asking who [music] puts the hammer
down. I was a little loose. So, what do
you think I said?
>> The Jen basically calls the shots.
[laughter]
I'm all about partnership. That was
definitely the right answer then.
How have you handled the pressure?
I come here.
I come here with my girlfriends.
I come here with my colleagues.
Um I come here with just the dogs.
For the Newsoms, partnership begins at
home. Across the bridge from San
Francisco in Marin County, known for its
pricey real estate and spectacular
natural beauty.
It's where Jennifer grew up and where
she and the governor have put down their
own roots, raising four children. I
heard you're a state [music] park nerd.
I've I've been watching your Instagram.
I've seen your walk.
>> I guess. Well, when you come running
your shine, I'm always like, "All right,
let's go."
People love to hate on California.
Look, it's a state of dreamers and doers
and entrepreneurs and Nobel laureates,
the center of manufacturing. [music]
We produce a third of the nation's
vegetables. You know, we've got Silicon
Valley and Hollywood here. And so, I
like to think there's probably some
jealousy.
>> [laughter]
>> Who wouldn't want to live here? It's
pretty special.
Of course, there are those who disagree.
Those who look past the good weather and
see California as an intractable tangle
of economic and social problems.
And place much of the blame with
Governor Newsom.
Hello.
>> How are you? You're a great interviewer.
Um you you know what? It's It's the
always-on era. There's always a hot mic
around.
Gavin Newsom has been a fixture of
California politics for more than 20
years. As San Francisco's mayor,
lieutenant governor, and now governor.
But increasingly, he's become the face
of political opposition to President
Trump. At home, Donald Trump's
government isn't protecting our
communities. They're traumatizing our
communities. And abroad.
>> He's a T-Rex.
You mate with him or he devours you.
And the president has taken notice. Look
at the job he's doing in California.
He's destroying one of our great states.
In 2025, the state of California filed
more than 50 federal lawsuits against
the Trump administration. [music] And
won a major victory with the passage of
Proposition 50, a redistricting measure
meant to counter similar Republican
efforts urged by Trump ahead of the 2026
midterms. You have a history of taking
up positions that carry a lot of
political risk. Same-sex marriage,
environmental regulation, Prop 50,
trolling Trump. You're out there
experimenting. Yeah. What is driving you
right now? Is it ambition or is it
outrage?
>> you know, with the two driving forces of
life, inspiration and desperation. Um I
mean, been inspired by a lot of our
politicians and by our politics in the
past. So, I'm now on the other side of
maybe feeling a little more desperate
about the moment we're living in. The
blatant corruption uh that is occurring
on an hourly, not just daily, basis. It
It sickens me in my core. As an
American, as a father, as a husband, as
a guy who uh grew up in the Bay Area.
And to watch some of my old friends
participate in that, um I need to be
more accountable to this moment.
>> Why should people trust you? I would
trust me. I mean, I've been I am who I
am and I've been a I've been an open
book for decades. And uh people who know
me best have elected me to many offices.
Uh there was an effort to recall me in
the last three elections. We won by
margins of 20 plus percent.
So, I mean, that issue, I think, has
been substantively addressed for those
that chronicle me, literally and
figuratively, uh that know me best in
this state and certainly in the Bay
Area.
The person who knows Newsom best of all
is his wife, Jennifer Siebel Newsom, who
was a vocal ally in the Prop 50 fight.
Voting yes on Prop 50 is saying to Trump
and his cronies that you cannot cheat in
California.
You cannot steal our power.
And you cannot silence our people.
Thank you for coming. Come in.
>> Thank you for having us at your house.
I have four kids, too. Yeah. Woo. So.
[laughter] It's fun, huh?
>> It's fun and I can imagine the four-kid
energy. A lot of energy.
>> A lot of energy. All right.
You want to be called first partner
instead of first lady. Mhm. How are you
trying to change the stereotype of what
it means to be a politician's wife? For
me, I really wanted to put out to
Californians that I wanted to partner
with California moms and families and
women and children. And that I would be
their partner. And uh that I also was a
partner to the governor. I'm the first
person that sees him in the morning, the
last person before bed at night. We
share, you know, our thoughts, our our
passions, our concerns for California
and for the world. Some partners of
government leaders enjoy the opportunity
and the attention that comes with this
position. Do you enjoy it or has it
taken some getting used to? I just am a
worker bee. I think my husband and I are
just worker bees. I actually don't love
the pomp and circumstance at all. I want
to roll my sleeves up and get to work.
>> [music]
>> How did you feel about her wanting to be
first partner instead of first lady?
>> mean, I I I had mixed feelings. But you
liked it.
>> I liked it because I thought it was the
right thing, but I knew that people
would, you know,
I would have opinions about it. Mhm. You
know, because it's uh you know, these
traditional roles and people have strong
opinions about all that.
Jennifer Siebel Newsom grew up in Ross,
California, one of five kids in a
wealthy, conservative family. You used
to be a registered Republican. I was
right. Yeah. Your parents contributed to
Ron DeSantis's campaign for Florida
governor.
>> Um if I may correct the record, my mom
and dad were invited to a fundraiser by
a mutual friend in Florida, which is why
they gave money to Ron DeSantis. It was
And then And they did not like the way
it was manipulated by the DeSantis camp.
I was raised in a conservative
household, kind of Reagan-esque
household. I didn't know any different
than to kind of revere Reagan. I grew up
in that generation. Then I think I tried
to be the version of decline to state,
but went independent instead and made
that mistake,
um just because I I wasn't ready to just
jump in just because he was
a Democrat. But I I'm a 100% a
progressive Democrat and um in terms of
my values. How does this dynamic work in
your own family? Like, what's the
conversation like at the Thanksgiving
table?
Do you talk about politics? My mom and
dad really respect Gavin. Gavin is an
entrepreneur. He's a businessman. He is
very forward-thinking, very
um fair, very balanced. I can be a
little feistier.
>> [laughter]
>> In terms of
I feel
a real responsibility to fight for and
on behalf of women and girls.
Siebel Newsom's childhood was colored by
a tragedy just before her seventh
birthday, [music] when she was involved
in a golf cart accident that killed her
sister, Stacey, who was 8 years old. In
interviews, she's described feeling
responsible. What was it like growing
up, Jennifer Siebel?
I mean, I really woke up after my sister
died.
But I also
lived
with a lot of guilt and and pain. And
the beauty of surviving that was that
there were so many beautiful moms
and older women and and older sisters
who came in to support me.
I got through it to come out on the
other side and realize that
I survived and had
this opportunity to
be of service and be about more than
myself and try to make a difference in
the world. At school, Siebel was driven
to excel.
Recruited to play on Stanford's Division
1 soccer team, [music] she went on to
work with women in indigenous
communities in Africa and Latin America.
And then returned to Stanford for her
MBA. And then,
>> [music]
>> she headed to Hollywood. Betsy Hoffstad.
Look at you. You were typecast [music]
as a trophy wife.
>> Yes. And is it true that your agent
wanted you to take Stanford off your
resume so you wouldn't seem smart? Yes,
[music] and to lie about my age, which I
didn't do either cuz
that's not you know, those aren't my
values. And I was proud of my Stanford
MBA, and I was proud of my Stanford
undergraduate degree, and I didn't want
to pretend to be someone that I wasn't.
How is [music]
what you've learned over the course of
your career informing what you think
[music] the government needs? In the
entertainment industry, I obviously saw
a dearth of women in positions [music]
of power and influence. I also saw
women's voices be silenced because women
weren't the majority of writers,
directors, and producers. [music]
And similar to the political world,
women may be rising in terms of our
[music] numbers and representation, but
we don't have the same Women don't have
the same voice and power [music]
in politics.
She poured her efforts into advocating
for change, becoming a documentary
filmmaker, and exploring social issues
around gender and economic inequality.
And she went on to advocate for herself,
making headlines [snorts]
in a California courtroom. You testified
that Harvey Weinstein sexually assaulted
[music] you. And you were part of the Me
Too movement. And there was that moment
for women where
it felt like progress was being made,
and then there's the moment that we're
in now where it feels like
so many things women fought for are
slipping away. Yeah.
How do you make sense of this moment?
Every time we make progress, there's
another backlash. I would say
technology is the new backlash. We don't
have as many women
in power starting, designing, running
these tech companies. The other part of
the problem is that these tech titans
are profiting
off of misinformation and disinformation
that is dividing our country. It's like
ka-ching, ka-ching, ka-ching, ka-ching,
ka-ching with all of this misinformation
and hate. It's not who we are as human
beings. It It is not what we are as
Americans. It alarms me that we've
gotten to this place and that we've
allowed it.
To change the balance of power, the
Newsoms have spearheaded a slate of
progressive initiatives. Many centered
on the well-being of women and families.
Here at the First Partner's Gender
Equity Summit, the hot topic is how to
regulate Big Tech, a group whose leaders
the governor has historically counted as
allies.
Kids deserve a world that values them
over the technology that currently
exploits them. [music] When decisions
are mainly driven by power and profit
instead of care and responsibility,
we completely lose our way.
>> [music]
>> And given the current alignment between
tech titans and the federal
administration,
I believe we have lost our [music] way.
We talk about the state The future
happens here first. We're America's
[music] coming attraction. And we have a
unique responsibility as it relates to
these tools of technology because, well,
this is the center
of that universe. The people you're
talking about at the top of these
companies, some of these are incredibly
powerful, incredibly wealthy, incredibly
influential people.
What do you make of tech's turn to the
right? It's disheartening and
disturbing.
Um
It's very confusing. When you spend too
much time
in your bubble of wealth
and perhaps in your limited perspective
where
you only interact with people of the
same economic ilk unless they actually
are employed by you, I think that's a
really dangerous place. The Newsoms have
spent years warning about who gets to
shape technology and who gets left out.
Now in a world of shifting loyalties and
alliances, they're fighting to keep
their own seat at the table. Some of
these people
didn't come out for Prop 50. People who
have been there for you in the past. How
do you win Silicon Valley back? I think
there are actually a lot of people in
Silicon Valley that love my husband and
respect him because they know he's
creative, he's an innovator, he's an
entrepreneur, he's a futurist. Um
they're scared, and so they're just
silent. Some of these people that have
power and wealth and relationships with
the current administration,
I think that their their loyalties
swing.
Trump's AI's are David Sacks, who once
supported Newsom and later backed an
effort to recall him, has been pushing
back against California's oversight of
AI companies. The problem that we see is
that you've got a thousand different
bills going through state legislatures
right now to regulate AI. For the
Newsoms, this is more than a regulatory
fight. It's a test of the once close
relationships he's had with Silicon
Valley leaders. I'm on the other side of
a lot of this. Can't take the David
Sacks of the world. Can't take the
selling out.
>> that you I know all these know well
personally. There's been a clear shift
to the right among tech leaders in
Silicon Valley.
Tech donors who once supported Democrats
are now whispering in the president's
ear. Your wife thinks some of these
folks have lost their way. Gosh, she has
strong opinions. I I give a little more
grace. I think there's more of a
situational relationship to 1600
Pennsylvania Avenue. Some with a little
more indulgent that I would like to see
because I think they're uh selling out
and they don't need to.
Um others that sadly I I I get the sort
[clears throat] of corporate side of
their decision-making, sadly. So, I
think the vast majority will
quote-unquote come back. I don't think
they're gone that far uh as as
perceived. How do you plan to regulate
AI when it means taking on the most
powerful people in your state and the
president's trying to stop it? Well,
we've been doing it. I mean,
California's been a leader for decades.
And so, I'm mindful of the competitive
relationship to headquarter companies
and so much that innovation coming here
and how we regulate it. At the same
time, I'm mindful of our responsibility.
The world we invented now, we also have
a responsibility to regulate truth and
trust, promise and peril, age-gating
conversations we're having social media.
I mean, California's led in that. We've
done it though in more prescriptive ways
than just saying, "Here's the age and
you can't access it." We talk about how
algorithms are used and how we could
protect children as it relates to those
algorithms. It wasn't long ago that
Newsom and Silicon Valley stood
together, a bond stretching all the way
back to his years as mayor of San
Francisco. Google, Apple, Microsoft,
Amazon, Facebook, all of them wrote a
brief to the Supreme Court supporting
gay marriage. You know, beyond talent,
why do you think these companies got so
involved?
>> I think it's it I think I I
fundamentally think I mean, just in
their fiduciary responsibilities to
their shareholder, it's about not just
attracting talent, but retaining talent.
And it's about representing the people
they're serving. Newsom grew up in San
Francisco.
Raised by a single mother who worked
multiple jobs.
He struggled with severe [music]
dyslexia in school, but was a standout
baseball player, which opened the door
to college.
Newsom also moved in society circles
thanks to his father, whose [music]
connections to the Getty family helped
launch Newsom's hospitality empire,
paving the way for a career in politics.
As governor, he's pushed progressive
legislation on gun control, abortion
rights, and minimum wage, while
simultaneously working to protect
business interests in Silicon Valley and
Hollywood.
He's also navigated some controversies.
In 2007, [music] after separating from
his first wife, Kimberly Guilfoyle, who
later got engaged to Donald Trump Jr.,
Newsom had an affair with his own
appointment secretary, the wife of his
campaign manager.
And in 2020, he was caught violating his
own COVID lockdown, attending a party at
the French Laundry, an exclusive Napa
restaurant.
With the scandals and recalls behind
him, Newsom has now moved on to the
biggest gamble of his political career,
a scorched-earth approach to Trump.
>> [music]
>> You have posted videos of the president
as a pig. It's a very big, fluffy, fun a
hamburger. Where's the beef? You've
dressed him like Marie Antoinette, told
him to take dementia meds. You're
wincing a little.
>> I know it's
unbecoming. Washed my mouth out with
soap.
>> So, if this is the future of American
politics and both sides leave the high
road behind, does this road lead
somewhere better or worse?
>> not trying to win an argument while
these guys are consolidating power. I'm
not an idiot.
And they play us for fools.
We got to be accountable at this moment.
And uh what I seriously am trying to do,
and I wince at that, is that's all in
reaction to.
It's the mirror that I'm putting up on
Trump and Trumpism. This is not normal
to dress up as the Pope. This is not
normal to act like a child when you are
a man and the leader of the free world.
And so, we started to change our social
media and used a little humor and put
that mirror up. I created a Patriot
site. You can go on the Patriot site. I
noticed I noticed the knee pads were
sold out.
>> They're sold out. Just like again, the
law firms and universities have sold
out. Just like the supine Congress has
sold out. These guys are not screwing
around. This is They're ruthless.
And so, we have to push back. And so,
our comms has shifted. I'm starting to
understand nature of attention. You
understand that in a business
perspective, the attention economy and
all the like. But in politics, this guy
floods the zone. He dominates the
narrative. Illusion rules. The
narrative's what matters, not facts.
>> [music]
>> And so, we've got to fight with fire.
Was there a moment you decided to break
the glass? Did you have to talk about
it? Like how did you
>> had to talk to her about it cuz I said,
"Just FYI, some of your friends may be
going, 'What the hell is this? Why is
your husband's picture on Mount
Rushmore?'" I had to explain this is
literally a mirror image of what Trump
put out a few months ago. He's so kind
and decent, and at some point that
doesn't work
with this situation [music] that we're
found ourselves in with this
administration. So, the mirror, the clap
back, the humor,
it's giving people hope.
When the governor isn't throwing flames
on social media, he and his wife seem to
be working more subtle angles.
Like pushing back against a proposed
billionaire tax. I do have one more
quick question because of the
billionaire tax and I know you've said
many times that you're against this, but
if it ends up on the ballot, I mean,
I've talked to people talk to these
people who say they're leaving. It is
not something that
is going to pass. It's not something
that we should do. If people want to
leave on that
>> there's going to be questions about that
as well, but the impacts in the state
would be profound. The fact that people
are leaving on that basis
on something that hasn't collected a
signature is uh
they're going to regret it in a few
weeks. But if it ends up on the ballot,
doesn't it scare you?
>> it. Doesn't it scare you it could end up
on the ballot?
>> We'll defeat it.
At issue for Governor Newsom is a
fundamental challenge, maintaining
strong bonds with both business leaders
and the working class.
But with nearly three quarters of
Democrats and Democratic-leaning
independents in favor of taxing the
wealthy, he may be forced into a
position with one group that alienates
the other.
While the governor worries about keeping
rich entrepreneurs and their businesses
in California, Siebel Newsom has been
sounding the alarm about a different
demographic slipping away. The governor
credits you with identifying an epidemic
that nobody else was talking about at
the time. Now you're seeing young men
gravitating towards a certain kind of
rhetoric.
How would you describe what they're
going through? Well, I think
culturally, there's been a loneliness
epidemic for many young men. The
manosphere online has really just
capitalized on filling that void of
loneliness and
a lack of healthy role models. You know,
the newest thing with young men is that
that they think that they have to make
money and that school isn't important
and they need to disconnect their heads
from their hearts and repress parts of
themselves. And again, in in hearing
that message over and over again and
denying parts of themselves and telling
them that their only value is in
their economic prowess and success and
owning and controlling women, that is so
harmful.
That is so
dehumanizing.
And
and then reinforced by the rhetoric and
behavior of the current president of the
United States of America, it's so
confusing. You've been doing this
podcast interviewing people on the other
side. Democrats cannot survive in
long-form podcasting environments. Why?
>> It's too unscripted. It's too masculine,
honestly. And the Democratic Party's
become too feminine.
>> about a podcast? Honestly, cuz I get the
whole manosphere that's broken down to
>> into the wilderness with no rules and
duel it out and see who's better or
who's stronger. No, seriously. I mean,
like what Democrats can't No, I mean,
like
you're right. We for whatever reason
don't do it. You've talked about how
your son was so excited for you to meet
Charlie Kirk, wanted you to meet Andrew
Tate even more. And the conventional
wisdom is that these figures are
attractive to young men who feel left
behind or left out. One wouldn't think
that that's your son. Yeah, he was
dabbling in all that. He did This is
YouTube. I mean, this was We don't He
didn't have a device at the time. It was
the school device.
It was his homework device and all of a
sudden he's just extending a little more
time on it. Then all of a sudden there's
an ad for something young men, you know,
get in shape and then all of a sudden
it's Hustlers University. Dad, I need 35
bucks. I'm like, what's Hustlers
University?
You know, it's crypto and get rich quick
and you know, come on, Dad, I need my
own account. I'm like, wow.
And so, it sort of monitored a
consciousness for me that I need to
monitor this.
And that device around algorithms, I
mean, how all of that is impacting kids.
So, society becomes how we behave so we
can get him. That's a deeper
conversation. But that conversation is
one we're all having in this country is
particularly young men and boys. When
did you find out he had this sort of
admiration for Charlie Kirk or interest
in Charlie Kirk? And how did that make
you feel?
>> Yeah, so it it was really exaggerated by
the media and I was a little upset about
that, to be honest, but um
it was a curiosity. I mean, my son, he
loves my his grandfather and he loves
who's a conservative and he loves my
husband and my conservative father loves
my husband. And he's just trying to get
attention like like, you know, curious.
They're trying on masculinities at that
age. They're trying things on. And the
right really has co-opted that. They've
really manipulated that. But
I was not happy about it because it's
not our values and it's not who my child
is. But it's also horrible what
happened. It is so sad and and I feel so
sorry for his family. I feel so sorry
for his community. Nobody
should be shot and killed.
Nobody.
The killing of US citizens by federal
agents in Minnesota has since [music]
caused tensions in America to boil over.
Patched helicopters
sending streets all across America
masked men
without providing identification and
we're in court on [music] that. I was
proud to sign the first anti-masking
bill in this country.
He's tried to stoke [music]
a civil war in this country. It is a
disgrace.
>> [music]
>> You've warned about the end of the
republic.
Is it hyperbolic to talk about civil war
or is that a real threat?
>> I hope not. Look, divorce is not an
option and we're going to have to define
the terms of the our future and and I I
just don't believe
we're not there, but we've got to
preserve this country and as we move
into the 250th anniversary of our
founding fathers,
I think it we're at risk of becoming
unrecognizable if we don't push back.
We only have to look at some of the
policies that the current administration
has championed, ripping families apart,
ripping children away from their mothers
and their grandmothers, ripping
healthcare away from vulnerable
communities. I equate it to a backlash
because we have made progress and I
think there are so many good human
beings that see the value in us standing
in our power and having voices
and using our voices
to champion policies and practices that
could make the world a better place. I
recently heard you say you support
compulsory national service for young
Americans.
>> I do. As a mom, I need to know more
about this. Is this for boys and girls?
What kind of service? What kind of
service would you like to see your own
kids
>> you go see your your I don't know
anything
that would be more powerful and potent
than sharing experiences at scale for a
generation that feels more isolated,
more alone, more disconnected, more
anxious. One, two years of service that
could come in many forms and
manifestations. Like across the
spectrum, consider just contributions in
your community, volunteering in a senior
center, volunteering for, you know,
mentoring young people, mentoring young
men in particular. We have a crisis of
men and boys and we've been trying to
address that as aggressively as any
other state. And so, I just think we
have to hit that head-on. Shared
experiences.
We used to have them. You know, our our
parents and grandparents and you know,
they had them through struggle and
conflict, war.
Um but that national service united
people. It wasn't about Democrats,
Republicans, urban, rural. Uh it was
about us coming together. It was about
understanding who we are, many parts,
one body. And I think this notion of of
of service is really important.
This is the final year of Newsom's term
as governor
>> [music]
>> and he's pushing against headwinds that
could complicate any national ambitions.
A projected $18 billion budget
shortfall, California's highly visible
homeless population,
>> [music]
>> and past progressive policies like
extending Medicaid to undocumented
immigrants, [music] which he since
paused, that he'll have to explain to
the rest of the country.
And then, there's affordability. The
average home in California costs [music]
more than two and a half times what it
does in Texas. And gas prices are more
than 70% higher.
It's expensive. It's It's very expensive
to live here. There's a lot of downsides
to living in California, especially the
expenses, the taxes, the traffic.
>> You know, we've had a lot of impacts.
So, I was impacted by a wildfire and not
necessarily forced into homeless, but
displaced. So, your house burned out
Your house burned down?
>> Yeah. You know, my husband and I live in
a fifth wheel and uh it's not an easy
life. What do you think of Gavin Newsom?
I feel like with the recent changes, I
feel like he's fighting for our country.
I work in higher education, so I see the
support that we are receiving within
higher ed with the California Promise
Grant, students are receiving free
education within community colleges. Do
you live here? I do live here. I'm
homeless out here.
>> have any words for Governor Newsom? Oh,
yeah. How is it all these mental health
people out here are getting mistreated,
misguided, families out here
struggling, homeless,
and you're the governor and you know it
and you're allowing it to happen.
Well, let's talk about affordability. I
mean, I think the median price of a
family home in this area is like $1.6
million.
You know, people look at the cost of
living here, which is incredibly high.
What do you say to those people? We want
to fix this for Californians, right? To
make it more affordable to live here.
And so, the fact that he's diving in and
addressing this and then hopefully the
next governor will continue the work,
but a lot of the policies that he's put
into place
we're not going to see the results for a
few years. And the next governor will
get to reap the benefits of all of this,
you know, from green schoolyards to all
of our investments in parks and
libraries, our education system we're
starting to see the outcomes of of our
investments in early literacy and
closing some of the gaps that occurred
because of the pandemic. I live in
California. I love California, but I
know we have our issues. People look at
California and see
a massive deficit, a homelessness
crisis, the crushing cost of living,
families and businesses leaving.
They say, "I don't want that." What do
you say to them? There's been a an
obsession with focusing on what's wrong
with California. I understand that. I'm
not naive about cost of living and
housing going back three, four, five
decades. But nor am I naive about our
approach to addressing it. Some of the
most significant housing reforms in US
history, not just California history,
over the last 2 years. Last year was
next level in terms of our efforts in
that space. I think they're going to pay
huge dividends. And I feel like
directionally on the issues of
affordability, when you do $11 insulin,
when you do wage increases for working
folks, which is part of the
affordability equation, $20 fast food
workers, $25 for health care workers,
when you focus on child care expansions,
of which no other state has done more in
subsidies than we have or created a
brand new pre-K for all, which saves
about $18,000 a year for working
families. All of that is part of an
affordability agenda. So, our agenda is
about delivering solutions to that,
addressing some of these systemic
issues, but also addressing some of the
complete mythology
and myth making
that's part of the California
derangement syndrome that seems 24/7 in
our politics today.
Whether these measures drive down costs
for California families is a question
that will be answered far into the
future.
For now, in the Newsom home, a
high-profile life carries its [music]
own cost. How often are you home?
[clears throat]
Uh Well, good question. I'll be in LA
tomorrow again, but it
I mean every night. I mean, I'm
otherwise, I mean, just commuting back
[music] and forth, which is not, you
know, I can appreciate people's
frustration around commutes a little bit
better. Didn't Arnold Schwarzenegger
just fly in on his jet every day? I have
my own G whatever. Yeah, no, that's that
doesn't come with this
no planes, private planes in the family.
When the cameras are off and the phones
are down, what's it like in the Newsom
household with Gavin and Jen? Well, the
phones are rarely down. So, let's
establish a baseline of understanding,
particularly when you got four kids
taking the phone in the house, even if
you took their phones, and
Jen and I are our cells. But look, it's
a little bit chaotic
sometimes chaotic. So, there's some
order to the chaos.
More often than not, there's no order to
it, but look, every night orders up a
different challenge that is
fatherhood. What time do you wake up?
What's your daily routine?
I wake up a little before 7:00. I'm very
I'm in my robe for a while. I put the
kids in the car in my robe.
>> [laughter]
>> I just love that for you.
>> bit embarrassing. I just don't care.
Then I'll like run the dogs up
somewhere, and [music] then I hit the
road. So, what's next for the Newsoms?
Uh I was going to say politics aside,
but I just don't think that's possible.
I've loved and love this chapter of my
life, and I'm probably going to be
really sad when it's over. And we've
been going going going going. We've had
the pandemic, we had wildfires, we've
had flooding. Every time we've wanted to
go on a family trip, we haven't because
there's a crisis. The governorship was
so much on our family. So much good
and so much pressure. How do your
children handle the pressures of of
living in the house with the governor?
You know, and how does that weigh on
you? Kids that from political families,
they
they a lot of them struggle, and we
think about that a lot. And what are we
what's our example? And are we being
good parents? And are we doing the right
thing? Some days they're happy about it.
Hey Dad, you know, so-and-so came up to
me, and they were really nice. Other
days, "I can't believe you did this to
me." Like actual language. "How can you
do this to me?
You know, when is this over?" You know,
and they're like, "I'm wearing a
countdown clock now." They're like,
"It's 13 more months. 12 No, it's 12."
And they're debating. We had to take one
of our kids out of school and homeschool
her.
And I'll never forget never ever ever
ever forget and some respect forgive
myself sitting there
in our living room where we did an 8th
grade graduation because she didn't
experience her 8th grade graduation. She
wasn't able to do that in front of her
friends and classmates.
That's politics, and that's stuff you
don't get back, and
so, those are the sacrifice Everyone has
sacri Look, I we've had privileges
beyond imagination. I'm not naive and
deeply situationally aware, but but
there is that side of it, and that's on
us. That's on me. And I
you know, I got to I got to make up for
that. What do you say to your kids when
they ask you if you're going to run for
president?
>> no idea. I tell them I tell them that.
I say it's circumstantial. You have to
have a big enough why. And then who
knows? I just don't know. But you said
you'd be lying if you weren't. I said I
was lying if I wasn't a passing thought,
and that's all I said, and then people
ran with these headlines. Look, Prop 50
was about 2025. We don't have 2028 if we
weren't successful in 2025.
Nothing matters
more
than a system of checks and balances,
not on paper, but in practice.
And this notion of co-equal branches of
government
doesn't take much of a historian to know
these are the principles of our founding
fathers, the best of Roman Republic,
Greek democracy. And so, everything
everything is about setting the table to
2026 and the midterms. Period. Full
stop. The guy guy on the white horse
comes save the day in 2028 is a sideshow
and not a particularly productive one at
this stage.
Do you see yourself
in the White House?
Do you let yourself imagine
what that life would be like?
I am so focused on this house [laughter]
in California.
>> [sighs and gasps]
>> Um I have no thoughts about that. That's
a family decision for down the line, if
when really if you know, it's
flattering. Like I I read an article
about him being the front runner, and it
of course is flattering. And I'm like,
"Yeah, he's really talented."
And
that is like
really far away.
And we have a state to end strong in,
a family to hold and launch, and I have
no idea. That said, you both have a lot
of momentum.
How do you keep that up?
For, let's say, 3 more years. I can't
speak to him and what he I mean, we've
talked about things um regardless
because that is a very small percentage
chance [music] of ending up there. And I
don't know
I don't know if I want it.
>> [music]
>> It's been a wild 7 years. We'll see. I
have no idea.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Who's funnier? I mean, Clearly she is.
No, he is. I just [music] sometimes I'm
shocked.
You sure that works? Yes. Okay, ready?
All right.